---

title: Warmup Strategy
description: Customize the preload or preconnect strategy used for your scripts.

---

## Background

Nuxt Scripts will insert relevant warmup `link` tags to optimize the loading of your scripts. Optimizing
for the quickest load after Nuxt has finished hydrating.

For example if we have a script like so:

```ts
useScript('/script.js')
```

This code will load in `/script.js` on the `onNuxtReady` event. As the network may be idle while your Nuxt App is hydrating,
Nuxt Scripts will use this time to warmup the script by inserting a `preload` tag in the `head` of the document.

```html
<link rel="preload" href="/script.js" as="script" fetchpriority="low">
```

This behavior only applies when using the `client` or `onNuxtReady` [Script Triggers](/docs/guides/script-triggers).
To customize the behavior further, you can use the `warmupStrategy` option.

## `warmupStrategy`

You can use the `warmupStrategy` option to customize the `link` tag inserted for the script. The option can be a function
that returns an object with the following properties:

*  - `false` - Disable warmup.
*  - `'preload'` - Preload the script, use when you load the script immediately.
*  - `'preconnect'` or `'dns-prefetch'` - Preconnect to the script origin, use when you know you will load a script within 10 seconds. Only works when loading a script from a different origin, will fallback to `false` if the origin is the same.

All of these options can also be passed to a callback function, which can be useful when you have a dynamic trigger for the script.

## `warmup`

You can call the `warmup` function explicitly to add preconnect or preload link tags for a script. This only works the first time you call the function.

This can be useful when you know that you are going to load the script shortly.

```ts
const script = useScript('/video.js', {
  trigger: 'manual'
})
// warmup the script when we think the user may need the script
onVisible(videoContainer, () => {
  script.warmup('preload')
})
// load it in
onClick(videoContainer, () => {
  script.load()
})
```
